This is a Linux port of the SyncML C API found on www.sync4j.org. 

Basic usage is to include the file syncml-client.h in the client source. The 
resulting program should be linked against the syncml-client library. The 
flags for this is defined by the pkg-config file syncml-client.pc

Further information on how to use this API: http://www.funambol.com/opensource.

This package contains some new routines to set log and error messages. See the 
files include/common/Log.h and include/common/Error.h. Besides this, the port 
is semantically identical to funambol's documentation.

The configuration data is stored in the gnome GConf database. A schema is
installed as a part of this installation. This schema has been tested against
the www.scheduleworld.com server. At least the user and password must be 
changed before actual testing.

Major changes in the port:

- A new LibCurl based TransportAgent is introduced in the http/linux
  dir. This directory contains a GenericTransportAgent which might 
  become a common base for all TransportAgents - these share a lot of code.

- A new gconf-based ManagementNode is added in the spdm/gconf directory

- Log.cpp and Error.cpp are rewritten. The code does not, as I understand it, 
  contain any routines not present in the MS API.

- The wsprintf functin present in Microsoft API does not exist in 
  Unix/Linux/POSIX. Changed to swprintf. swprintf requires a length
  parameter not used in wsprintf - this is handled from case to case.
  Many template %s string placeholders changed to %ls

- In order to comply with the opensync's idea of syncing, two actual
  sync commands are sent from client to server (the first is just a poll
  to get the changed items on server). 

- All source files includes the file unixdefs.h. This defines various
  Microsoft standard macros.

- All #directives are now aligned with the # to the very left.If not,
  gcc emits lot's ow warnigs.

- A lot of support files are added for GNU autoconf stuff, RPM packaging
  etc.

