Opie Plugin for OpenSync README
===============================

This OpenSync plugin is intended to allow synchronisation with the Opie 
handheld environment (http://opie.handhelds.org). In theory it should also 
support some versions of Qtopia as found on the Sharp Zaurus, but no testing 
of this has been done.

This plugin is a work in progress but should be able to sync contacts, 
calendar events and todo list entries, minus a few fields. However, use 
is entirely at your own risk - back up your data on both sides first!

If you'd like to help, please try the plugin and send any questions, patches 
or corrections to the opensync users list 
(opensync-users@lists.sourceforge.net). Thanks!


Configuration Options
---------------------

url
  IP address or hostname (not actually a URL) eg. 192.168.0.2

username
  User name to log into the device as (default root).

password
  Password to log into the device with (default rootme).

device
  Device type being connected to:
    opie    - Opie or compatible OS (default)
    qtopia2 - Qtopia 2.0 or compatible OS (eg. Zaurus with original ROM).

port
  TCP port on the device to use for file transfers. Default is 4242.

conntype
  Connection type to use:
    ftp  - use FTP (default)
    scp  - use SFTP - currently broken
    none - don't connect. Useful for debugging only - will expect the device 
           files to sync with to be in /tmp.

use_qcop
  Control the use of QCOP to notify the device of syncing:
    true  - enable QCOP (default)
    false - disable QCOP. Only really useful for debugging.

backupdir
  (Optional) If you want the files from your device backed up prior to every 
  sync, set this option to a directory to put the backups into. A directory 
  named using the current date and time will be created for each backup. 
  Files will also be written to this directory in the event that uploading to 
  the device fails.
  Note that old backups are not purged - you will need to do this yourself.



Troubleshooting
---------------

I see the error "Failed to log into server"

  Make sure you have set the security options properly on the Opie side - go
  to Settings->Security->Sync and set the "Accept sync from network" option to
  an appropriate value for your network setup. You should also check the
  username and password set in the configuration for the plugin.


Syncing freezes at a particular point

  This is most likely caused by attempting to sync with another plugin that
  supports object types that the opie-sync plugin does not support (eg. notes).
  These types should be disabled in your syncing frontend or the sync will not
  complete successfully. (This issue will be addressed in a future version of
  OpenSync). For msynctool, just add "--filter-objtype note" to the end of the
  command line (without quotes).

  Alternatively, an error may be occurring during the sync which is not being
  shown in the output - please report this problem to the OpenSync mailing list
  (opensync-users@lists.sourceforge.net). If you can, enable the OpenSync
  tracing feature and look through for any messages that include "ERROR".


Calendar events are several hours out

  Firstly if you are not using OpenSync newer than 0.20 (eg. svn) then please
  upgrade - older versions have a bug the time conversion code. Secondly, you
  may not have set the time zone correctly on the handheld - please check the
  documentation for your handheld OS (if you are using Familiar please see the
  Familiar release notes). Essentially you need to make sure that
  /etc/localtime is the correct timezone file for your locale, or a symlink
  that points to the correct file.


After syncing with KDEPIM, the KDE address book shows phone numbers as "Other"

  This is a problem with the KDE KAddressBook application - it does not know
  how to show the type for phone numbers that have more than one type tag (eg.
  both Work and Mobile). If you don't like this then please comment/vote on
  KDE bug #102466 (http://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=102466).


Todo alarms don't seem to synchronize properly when syncing with KDEPIM

  Opie's support for todos is not as comprehensive as KDEPIM's - most of the
  trouble comes from Opie not supporting a due time (only a due date). In the
  reverse direction, KDEPIM does not support specific date/time value for
  alarms on todos which Opie uses.




Todo list
---------

Missing fields on contacts

  "Business web page", "Gender" and "Children" fields from the Opie side are
  not currently handled since OpenSync's internal XML format does not
  currently support them.

SCP support

  SCP support is currently broken.

Qtopia testing / support

  No testing has yet been done with Qtopia on Zaurus devices.

Opie SQLite PIM backend support

  Only Opie's XML (default) backend is currently supported.

Note (memo) syncing support

  This would probably be done by reading and writing text files from a set
  location on the handheld (eg. the home directory) as Opie has a text editor
  instead of a traditional notes application.

UID mapping

  The plugin maps external UIDs from other plugins to Opie UIDs by writing
  an internal map to an XML file. In the future this should be taken care of
  by the OpenSync engine itself.

